# User interface

Below is a description of various items within the user interface:

<img src="images/input_gui.png" alt="Input user interface" style="width: 25%; height: 25%"/>â€‹

## Projects
Projects will list the projects available locally (MY PROJECTS) and
those shared via Mergin (ALL PROJECTS). Within MY PROJECT, user can
delete an existing project.

ALL PROJECTS lists the projects within user's Mergin account. It also
includes projects shared with the user by other Mergin users. Projects
can be downloaded or updated (to or from) Mergin from this screen.

## GPS
By default, the map is always centred around the GPS signal. This will
limit to users to pan the map to the other parts of projects. Pressing
and holding GPS icon, will turn off the auto-centre mode.

GPS signal color on the map denotes the accuracy threshold set by user
within the Input settings (See Settings section).

## Record
This option will allow user to capture the poison of the GPS and save it
as point or line. Pressing the Record button for the first time will
list all the survey layers (point and line layers within the project not
marked as read-only in the QGIS project properties). User can then
select a layer.

If a point layer is selected, a point geometry will be recorded at the
location of the GPS. A form (attribute table) for the point will appear
for user to fill in.

If a line layer is selected, a path will be generated from the GPS track
until the record button is pressed again. The form for the recorded line
will appear accordingly.

Input sets the last surveyed layer as the default layer for editing.
Subsequent pressing of the record will make changes to the default
layer. To reset the default layer and see the full list of the survey
layers, you need to press and hold the record button.

## Zoom to project
This is a shortcut to zoom the extent of all visible layers within the project.

## Map themes
Themes generated from QGIS project will be listed here. User can switch
between different map themes using this option.

##Settings
Input specific configuration can be accessed through settings.

### Defaults

The default Survey layer can be viewed, cleared or reset here. By
tapping the Survey layer, you can set a layer or deselect the default
layer.

### Mergin

Displays the current user signed in to Mergin. To clear the log in,
users can tap on their name.

### GPS

Follow GPS with map will pan the map so the GPS point can be seen on the
map.

GPS accuracy colours show the current strength of the signal based on the
Accuracy threshold. If the signal falls within the the threshold, the
colour will be green. If it is outside, it will be orange or red.
